hey guys welcome back to the channel a
few weeks ago i asked which movie you'd
want to see covered next and you guys
voted for sinister
which happens to be one of my favorite
horror films of all time
in the movie we follow a true crime
writer who investigates the killing of a
family and the disappearance of their
youngest daughter
in order to write the book effectively
he moves into the house where the
murders happened
but things get increasingly weird when
he finds a box of snuff films that
contain the answers he's been looking
for
so let's review what happens in the
movie and how to survive
it the movie opens with a family of four
with bags on their heads and nooses
around their necks
an unseen figure then uses a saw to cut
a branch which causes them to be hanged
after that we cut the allison oswalt a
true crime rider as he's moving into a
house with his wife tracy
and their kids trevor and ashley as
ellison carries a box into the kitchen
we see the same tree from the super 8
tape in the beginning
ellison moved into this house as the
previous family's murder
is the case he will cover in his new
book he also hopes to find out what
happened to the youngest daughter
stephanie who mysteriously disappeared
and wasn't found with the rest of the
stevenson family
alison's books always try to determine
what really happened in the unsolved
cases
so this one seemed like a perfect fit as
they're carrying boxes into the house
the local sheriff stops by to tell
allison that he's not a big fan of his
work as his previous book spread a bad
theory that let a killer go free
however the officer didn't like
ellison's first book called kentucky
blood
but everything after that was pretty
lackluster allison seems to be aware of
this and sees this new case as his final
chance of making a comeback
as he's exploring the house he decides
to take a look into the attic
theory finds a mysterious black box when
he walks up to it a scorpion appears
alison quickly drops one of the moving
boxes to crush it
that scorpion should already be the
first sign that something is not quite
right
scorpions don't usually show up in
residential houses in pennsylvania
most of them live in the desert some of
them in trees or under rocks
but the one we see here is most likely a
forest scorpion
whose habitat is southeast asia or an
emperor scorpion that comes from west
africa and neither of them have a
similar climate to what we see here
of course allison shouldn't immediately
move out because of a wild animal
but the only reasonable explanation for
the scorpion is that somebody planted it
there
and when things get increasingly weird
later on it can be seen as another piece
of evidence that something is seriously
off about this place
allison opens the box out of curiosity
and surprisingly finds an old projector
with some super 8 tapes
all of the roles have innocent names
like pool party or barbecue
making them look like boring home movies
but what ellison finds in them will be
much worse
that evening at the dinner table the
kids ask why they moved and when they
can go back to the old house
and alison tells them that if he can
write a great book they can go back very
soon
after everyone goes to bed he starts
working on the deceased family's case
thinking that the ominous tapes can help
him solve the mystery of the missing
girl
he loads up the first one titled family
hanging out
2011. the video starts off innocent
enough with his stevenson family playing
in their backyard
the guys are throwing a football around
while stephanie plays on a swing
all of this is accompanied by some
creepy music with a sudden cut we see
the tape from the beginning where the
family is being hanged
but it's only for the five family
members after finishing it ellison
reviews the footage and asks some
important questions
like who made the movie and where is
stephanie and why isn't she being killed
with the others
since it's the first tape there isn't
much information given to us that we can
take advantage of
but something already seems off after
the family's death the police presumably
looked through the entire house for
clues and with the house being for sale
there must have been multiple people who
went through the place
yet ellison is the first person to
stumble upon these tapes
meaning that after the murder somebody
came back and left the videos there to
be found
and it's not unreasonable to believe
that the person who left the tapes is
the same guy that filmed or killed them
it's not like the films are an mp4 that
everyone can download but it's a super 8
tape
this isn't exactly something people
would make tons of copies of
even back in 2011 i mean the device to
play the films was included because it's
so outdated
so if there's a reasonable probability
that the killer came back to the house
after the murders
alison should immediately call the
police to bring his family to safety
but instead he decides to watch another
tape this one called barbecue
1979 we see a family fishing by a lake
and not even a minute in and we get
another hard cut to a car with its door
locked sitting in a garage
as the camera goes around the car we see
the family tied up inside with multiple
canisters of flammable fluids
when it goes to the front we see some
sort of symbol on the hood after which
the car is lit on fire
it erupts in a big flame with everyone
inside being burned alive
ellison who gets increasingly nervous
simply watches in shock
he calls the police to tell them about
the tapes but when he looks at his
breakout bestseller on the shelf
he hangs up and decides to do this all
by himself to write a better book
he goes back to his cork board and
mutters you came back
and left the box
why but the intention is quite obvious
whoever killed these two families is the
same person or at least
the same group the obscure editing and
use of outdated technology indicate this
so if someone came back and left the box
it can easily be a threat to whoever
finds it
we also see something more important and
it's that the killer stalked his victims
before he killed them
he's lurking in the bushes and filming
them from far away before the families
are murdered
meaning that if ellison experiences
anything that indicates that he's being
watched or followed in his own home
it would pretty much be a dead giveaway
that he's the killer's next target
when he gets ready for the next tape he
hears some noises inside the house
he goes to his daughter but she's
already sleeping so it can't be her
he goes closer to the noise and sees one
of the moving boxes shaking
suddenly his son trevor crawls outside
of the box and screams
alison runs towards him to help trevor
is having a night terror which is
similar to sleepwalking combined with a
bad nightmare you can't escape
he brings him outside to calm him down
eventually his son snaps out of it and
goes back to normal
allison and his wife are a little
surprised as he hasn't had these in a
long time
and the fact that trevor is experiencing
these night terrors again
may be another indication that
something's off it might seem
far-fetched however ellison later goes
on to remark
that they're far worse than ever before
that paired with the supernatural things
happening in the tapes
like the tree branch being sought off by
someone invisible and that the films
were left for him
seems like enough evidence to get some
help at this point ellison's book would
make a good unsolved case and he'd be
credited with finding the horrific tapes
which already seems better than the last
few books he wrote but allison wants to
keep going
the next day he watches the third tape
which i found the scariest
it's titled pool party 1966 and features
a family in their backyard being filmed
by the same stalker
when we get to the murders the different
family members are tied to pool chairs
and are drowned
then as the cameraman pans to the other
side we see someone standing in the
water
now this tape even though i think it's
the creepiest one is probably the only
one that you could survive
in the previous films the victims were
burned and hanged which can't be
prevented but drowning victims can be
brought back even after swallowing water
but that's only the right steps of
resuscitation are quickly followed
however the strange being and the
cameraman don't seem too eager to help
anyone
after re-watching the tape and
inspecting the pale figure's face
the film starts burning following this
ellison makes digital copies of them
once nighttime comes around he watches
the second to last tape
labeled sleepytime 1998. we see someone
walking around the house we then go
upstairs and see all the family members
tied to their beds
after they get killed ellison scrubs
through the tape to see all the small
details he again sees a symbol on the
wall it looks exactly like the one drawn
on the car in the barbecue tape
he also sees the name of the city where
it took place allison researches the
murders and finds an
old news clip describing the events as
he watches this he hears creaking noises
coming from the attic
a few seconds later the lights shut off
followed by more stepping sounds
ellison decides to walk through the
house to investigate once he climbs up
in the attic he finds the cover of the
box
on the inside of it are childlike
drawings depicting the murders
in the drawings we see a mysterious
figure called mr boogie this is
presumably the one responsible for the
murders and kidnappings
he starts recording them with his phone
and tries to go back downstairs
once he gets close to the stairs he
breaks through the ceiling and falls to
the floor beneath
the next morning one of the deputies
comes over to the house during their
conversation he reveals that he's a big
fan of ellison's work
the officer asks if he needs any help
with the case alison requests him to dig
up the files of the murders we've seen
but he only gives vague details but
reveals nothing about the box with the
projector
and says that the cases are completely
unrelated once he's alone again he
reviews the footage a few more times and
finds the creepy white figure
in all of the movies spectating the
kills ellison then already gets a call
from the deputy who tells him the
address where one of the murders
happened
ellison appears quite stunned but when
the deputy asks him if it's anything
significant
he says no but he's clearly lying two
nines
wait did you say 2976 like 29.76 yeah
why does that mean something to you
ah no no it doesn't no thank you thank
you deputy
it's then revealed that at least two of
the murdered families had some sort of
relation
the miller family the victims of the
sleepy time tape lived in 2976 piedmont
way
where the stevenson family the victim of
the hanging lived before they move to
the house ellison is in
he then reviews his recordings in the
attic on it he sees himself falling
through the boards but after going back
a few frames little hands are seen
pushing him down through the floor
this is the first evidence we get that
there is something supernatural
happening
it's probably the most blatant moment
where ellison should notice
that whatever he's taking on here is
clearly too big and far too
dangerous for him usually in horror
films the family doesn't know that a
ghost is in the house so they don't run
away
but in this movie ellison knows
something weird is happening but chooses
to stay because of his obsession to
write another crime book
even though it makes for a great story
it should be the clearest indication
that he should get the authorities
involved
and here's what calling the police can
do for him once they see that they are
dealing with a killer who continuously
stalks their victims
ellison should be under some
surveillance also later on we find out
that you can estimate when the killer
strikes
so if they know when the attack happens
ellison should only be under heightened
surveillance for a short time
when the family gets attacked the police
could interrupt the killing
we'll get into more detail further in
the video because there is more
information that is shown later on but
that is the general reason why calling
the police and getting proper help can
save his family
the next night ellison is down to the
final tape labeled lawn work in 1986
and this one is quite intense we see a
family being watched through a window in
their house
the person with the camera almost comes
right up to the window filming the
family
then on a rainy night we see someone
getting a lawnmower
it gets pushed down a small path and
eventually on the grass
suddenly we see one of the family
members lying on the grass as the
running lawn mower goes over their face
after that ellison decides to take a
break he goes on a video call with a
professor hoping he can help him
decipher the meaning of the symbols
we've seen
the man tells him that the drawings in
the tapes are used to worship a deity
named bugul
or the eater of children bogul resides
in a different world and needs the souls
of children to survive
to get the kids he manipulates the
youngest child as they are usually more
susceptible to his methods
he then tricks them into coming into his
world ellison then shares what he has so
far with the professor
one key piece of information we get
during this conversation
is that the worship of begual requires a
blood sacrifice
this indicates that the family's killing
is a key step for bagol
it seems to be the final piece of the
ritual that allows him to capture the
kids and take them into his realm
that means that if the family's killing
is successfully interrupted bagool can't
take the kids and with enough time he
would starve
after experiencing more strange things
ellison calls over the police officer he
met
during their conversation he's behaving
quite strange and is asking the deputy
bizarre questions
the man asks if he is alright but
doesn't believe when allison insinuates
that something weird is going on
the officer mentions how ellison
surrounds himself with dark murder cases
and always sees another open whiskey
bottle in his office
this the officer thinks leads him to see
things that aren't really there
since ellison has a legitimate reason to
be scared for himself and his family and
needs at least a little bit of help and
protection
he should have shared some of the
evidence with the deputy just to prove
that he isn't crazy and that there is a
reason for concern
he could tell him how he found a box of
evidence from the stevenson's case in
the attic
meaning that the murderer or someone
close to him had come back to the house
and since the killer appears to be a
stalker who follows his victims before
killing them
it's a reasonable possibility that
ellison is in danger
he already heard someone walking around
his house which means that time is
running out for him
since the deputy has shown to be a fan
of his work and is very loyal to him
ellison can probably trust him not to
share any of the important details of
the case
with the help of the deputy ellison
would get the protection he needs from
the ghoul and he would only share a
little of the evidence that would make
his book unique
anyways that night ellison once again
walks up to the attic
theory gets scared by all the missing
kids from the cases
they sit there watching a tape of bagool
this is also the first time ellison sees
the being face to face
this is when he decides that it's too
much and goes to burn the tapes in the
yard
when his wife asks what's going on he
tells her to get the kids there will be
no book about this case and he simply
wants to get out of town
they drive off and move into their old
house as the furniture is being brought
back ellison gets a call from the deputy
but doesn't answer it
when it's getting late he goes into the
attic of his new house and sees the same
black box of home movies there's also an
envelope containing the extended cuts of
the films
he decides to add the footage of the
videos and watch the full version
at this point ellison has undeniable
proof that he's being followed
this is his last but also probably his
best chance to call the police
and it's kind of strange that he doesn't
before this he didn't get any help
because he wanted to profit off the
murder tapes by having exclusive access
to them
but now sharing them with the police
wouldn't be a problem since he's no
longer writing his book about it
before he manages to watch the tapes he
gets another call from the deputy and
decides to pick up
they discuss the cases and he shows a
listen that each of the murders happened
after the family moved into the house of
the previous victims
somebody would move into where the ghoul
killed a family
after they move out and go into the next
home that's when begun would kill them
by moving back into their old house
ellison has put himself into the
timeline of the murders
since he lived in the stevenson's house
and left his family will now be killed
he then watches the extended cut tapes
in them we see how the youngest kids are
always the ones killing their families
this is how bagool gets the kids he is
released by the tapes the pictures and
videos of himself
act as a gateway into our world once
he's there he manipulates the youngest
kids to kill their family
this is part of the ritual for their
abduction when they successfully murder
everyone bugle takes the kids into his
realm to feed on their souls over time
as he realizes this he starts to get a
strong headache and looks into his
coffee
there he sees a glowing green liquid
it's shown that his daughter brought him
the coffee
when ellison sees this he passes out a
few minutes later his daughter
is standing over him with an axe and a
super 8 camera
while everyone else is tied up with tape
she tells him not to worry
and that she'll make him famous again
she then kills the family
after which she gets taken by the ghoul
so one way to survive bugol's actions is
to simply never leave the first house
however he would continuously torment
you until you'd have to flee
the other way to beat him is move out
but stay under surveillance
since we know that bagool attacks
shortly after you move
it would only be for a few days then
once he strikes the ritual of killing
the family can be quickly interrupted
since it's the kids killing the family
not the demon this is further explored
in the sequel
there we see that if the child fails to
kill their family the parents and
siblings can survive
unfortunately the youngest kid would be
killed by bagua but the rest of the
family lives
there is a big loss but either one of
them dies or none of them live
and after the kid would be gone the rest
of the family would be free
of torment the ghoul only comes after
them to get the kids
if there's no kid there's nothing for
him to do as the grown-ups are not
susceptible to his methods of
manipulation
so they would be left alone by the way
the fact that bugul kills the kid in the
sequel even though he didn't kill his
family
doesn't really make a lot of sense the
entire reason the tapes exist
is to complete this elaborate scheme
necessary for bagool to kidnap the
youngest one
but then in the sequel he can just kill
them anyway if you only go by the rules
of the first movie
the child would not need to die and they
should all live if the ritual is
successfully interrupted
let me know what you guys think as
always thank you so much for watching
and i hope that i get to see you in the
next one
bye guys